on average more than one journalist has
been killed every day during Israel's
war on Gaza the committee to protect
journalists reports that nearly 40 have
now lost their lives at the hands of the
Israeli forces since the War Began
they've been killed by air strikes by
artillery shelling or by being shot
according to the cpj Israel's war on
Gaza has become the worst for those
covering conflict since it began
documenting deaths in the early
1990s the International Federation of
journalists condemns the killings in
continued attacks on journalists and is
calling for an immediate investigation
reporters Without Borders recently
concluded Israeli forces deliberately
targeted and killed a reuter
videographer in southern Lebanon as
non-combatants journalists are protected
under article 79 of the Geneva
Convention and all parties to a conflict
have a duty to protect them well earlier
this month a video went viral of a
Palestinian journalist ripping off his
bullet proof proof vest and helmet
during a live broadcast after his
colleague was killed while reporting
outside a
hospital these shields and hats do not
protect us they do not protect any
journalist at all this is just equipment
and in this situation we are victims
losing lives one after another at no
cost we're waiting for our turn one
after another all right let's talked to
Tim Dawson who's Deputy Secretary
General of the International Federation
of journalists it represents 180
journalist unions and associations right
around the world and has around 600,000
members Tim joins us on Skype from
London welcome Tim from that clip you
get a very real impression of the the
sense of hopelessness really in a
conflict where the numbers of
journalists keeps on Rising and indeed
as we've just heard the worse since
figures started being kept what are your
thoughts well I I certainly agree with
you that the the death toll is
absolutely shocking um you know more
than one journalist today dead I mean
just to put that in a little bit of
context uh if you look at the Vietnam
War which lasted for 20 years involved
2.2 million combatants uh it's widely
thought about 63 journalists died in
that conflict um the wars in Yugoslavia
which went on for 10 years in the 1990s
140 journalists dead so the scale of of
of loss of life among journalists in
Gaza is extraordinary and I I mean you
are absolutely right that they are they
are experiencing real hardship and
difficulties there's very little food
there's very little water uh there's
about a thousand journalists working in
Gaza at the moment and they mostly walk
to their assignments so they carry their
heavy cameras and and tripods on their
shoulders to go and get the stories but
there's also among them an absolute
determination to get the stories an
absolute determination to try and
unearth absolutely everything that's
happening in Gaza which I think is
extraordinary they are they're very
brave courageous and determined
individuals who I think deserve all of
our support and unusual because these
journalists actually live there they
have no means of Escape there is no
respite absolutely not there are so far
as I'm aware no foreign uh registered
journalists in Gaza so I think that some
of their determination comes from the
fact this is their home that this is
happening to uh an extraordinary and
terrible thing is happening to where
they live uh one of them said to me the
other day there isn't an inch of Gaza
that doesn't have a story to tell and
we're determined to get all of those
stories out uh and I think you know if
if you look at journalists and
journalism doing the very best work and
the very best people doing that work
you'll find it in Gaza today yeah and as
as we at aler know all too well members
of journalist families have been
targeted too uh you've been calling for
an investig ation how would you like to
see the remit of that and how would it
be conducted who would do
it
well as you mentioned at the top of this
package um the international law is
fairly clear that civilians should be
protected by military forces uh and that
journalists are counted as civilians so
I would I mean I I would like to see
right now the Israel is taking proactive
steps to safeguard journalists I don't
think it's it's certainly not enough to
send out a press release saying um you
know there's nothing we can do to
guarantee your safety I think it's
perfectly normal and responsible for a
military force to have guidelines for
its operatives about how journalists are
protected in terms of it being
investigated I think that probably will
be something for the future but perhaps
it'll be something for the international
criminal court um I you know the dust
and the smoke of war is is very thick
over Gaza at the moment and it's quite
hard to judge any evidence in the in the
way that you would hope that a court
would um but I would very much hope that
if there have been breaches of
international law that they will be
addressed in an international court
right and Tim the Israeli military said
it cannot guarantee the safety of
journalists it said that directly to AFP
and Reuters tell us how calls for Israel
to be more responsible in their assault
as far as journalists are concerned have
been responded to by
Israel well I've not had any response
from Israel to the to the that I've made
I'm afraid to say um the the mindset
among uh Israeli military commanders is
is deeply depressing My Hope Is that the
more people who speak up um the more
chance that there is that they will take
notice I mean you mentioned the many
members of the International Federation
of journalists who have added their
voice to a call for international law to
be respected and it's worth remembering
I mean of those organizations all over
the world who've signed up to that most
of them will have had meetings of their
executive boards who will in turn have
consulted their members journalists all
over the world giving thought to this
people from an enormous variety of
perspectives and political beliefs and
religious background so this isn't some
you know monolithic group who support
you know a particular side or another
it's people who fundamentally have
journalism at their heart fundamentally
have the desire to tell stories to
expose what's going on who can see the
damage that's been done to journalists
in Gaza yeah as you say extraordinary
reporting going on uh at great personal
risk Tim Dawson we appreciate that Tim
Dawson from the International Federation
of journalists thanks thank you Nick